the city of Rome.
This video depicts some key features of Rome, including apartment blocks, as they may
have looked in the Apostle Paul's day.
Seen here are one, the Via Apia, or Appian Way, two, the Circus Maximus, three Palatine
Hill, four, the Temple of Caesar, five Roman theaters, six, the Pantheon, and seven, the
Cyber River.
The famous Roman Colosseum is not shown because it was not built until late in the first century.
Rome, the capital city of the Empire, was located on the Cyber River and was built on an area
that has seven hills.
As the Roman Empire flourished, the city expanded.
This is the Via Apia.
Paul travelled on this road to reach Rome.
This is the Circus Maximus, the city's first circus.
It existed in Paul's day.
Some Christians likely died in this arena.
By the middle of the first century CE, Rome may have had a population of around one
million people, including a large Jewish population.
This is the Cyber River and three of Rome's theaters, the Theatre of Mocellus, the Theatre
of Balbus, and the Theatre of Pompey.
Admittance to the theaters was free.
Events included debates, trials, musical performances, and plays.
The entertainment was at times violent and immoral.
For good reason, Paul encouraged the Christians in Rome to abhor what is wicked, Romans 12-9.
This is the Pantheon, a temple dedicated to the gods.
The first Christians in Rome, likely were Jews and proselytes who had been in Jerusalem
on Pentecost 33 CE and had heard Peter and the other disciples preach.
These new disciples would have brought the good news with them when they returned to Rome.
This is the Temple of Caesar, built to honor Julius Caesar.
This is Palatine Hill.
The city was apparently founded on this location.
Caesar Augustus had a palace here, and successive emperors expanded it.
The congregation in Rome was surrounded by political, religious, and immoral influences.
Even so, Paul wrote that the faith of those disciples was talked about throughout the
whole world, Romans 1-8.